.TH IMAGETOOL 1HIPS "November, 1987"

.SH NAME
imagetool - interactive tool for image processing, using the mouse and
the IP-512

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imagetool
[device_number]

.I  device_number
is either 0 for /dev/ipfb0c or 1 for /dev/ipfb1c.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I imagetool
is an interactive tool for image processing. It puts a cursor that
follows the mouse on the image monitor, and helps the user define
rectangular part of that image, and process it.
.I imagetool
can be invoked only from
.I suntools.
It opens a window of 512x512 pixels, at the upper left corner of the
SUN console. The location of the cursor within this window, is
translated to the cursor location on the monitor.  At the moment, this
window can not be recovered after being hidden by other windows, and
can not be moved. Therefore, it is advised to move the window from
which you want to call
.I imagetool,
e.g. the
.I shell-tool
window, to the right half of the console.
.I imagetool
processes images by using the filters in /horef/image/bin.  Thus the
image file it uses must be in the
.I HIPL format. It opens
parallel processes that use the IP-512 device simultaneously. That is
why it opens /dev/ipfb in the share mode (/dev/ipfb0c or /dev/ipfb1c).

.SH HOW TO USE IMAGETOOL:
.I imagetool
uses
.I suntools,
therefore it must be used from within
.I suntools.
When the
.I imagetool
window appears, entering it with the mouse cursor will cause another
cursor to appear on the image monitor. Generally, while inside this
window, clicking the RIGHT mouse button will display the relevant menu.
Also choosing a menu entry is done by clicking the RIGHT mouse button.
If the menu disappears after the first click, hold the RIGHT mouse
button depressed, and release it when the wanted menu entry is  black.
Some operations require input from the
.I shell-tool
window. When this is the case, a message will appear in the
.I shell-tool
window. One must move the cursor to that window in order to submit this
input, and move it back to the
.I imagetool
window when no more input is expected. It is recommwended to look at
the
.I shell-tool
window for other messages too. Some operations take longer than
others.  The user can know that
.I imagetool
is ready again if the the cursor in the image monitor reflects the
movement of the mouse.  The functions
.I VALUE,
.I HISTOGRAM,
.I ZOOM
and
.I SAVE
can operate on a rectangular part of the picture. After choosing one of
them, the last defined rectangle is displayed on the screen (unless it
is the whole screen), and the cursor looks like an upper-left corner.
The first click of MIDDLE mouse button defines the upper left corner of
the new rectangle. As a result, the cursor changes, and looks like a
lower right corner.The next click of the MIDDLE mouse button defines
the lower right corner of the  rectangle.  Following MIDDLE mouse
button clicks will change the lower right corner.  Clicks at illegal
locations, i.e. locations which are higher and/or more to the left than
the upper left corner already chosen, are ignored.  The smallest
rectangle allowed is of 3x3 pixels. The borders of any defined
rectangle must be at least 2 pixels off the borders of the picture.  If
the user wishes to use the current default rectangle, he can skip the
above process by clicking the RIGHT mouse button immediately. The
default rectangle is the last defined one, or the full screen if none
was defined yet.  After a rectangle is defined, clicking the RIGHT
mouse button will display a
.I secondary menu- region :
.TP
.IR
.I rectangle -
execute command on the last defined rectangle.
.TP
.IR
.I full screen -
execute command on the whole screen (the rectangle is not changed).
.TP
.IR
.I redefine -
clear screen, and allow a definition of a new rectangle.
.TP
.IR
.I exit -
do not execute. Go back to
.I imagetool
window and click again to get the
.I imagetool
menu.

.SH
.I IMAGETOOL Menu entries:
.br
.I VALUE
prints in the
.I shell-tool
window a table of the coordinates and values of the pixels of the
rectangle, and gives an option to change the value of any pixel on the
screen. The maximum size of the table is 10x10.  If the dimensions of
the rectangle are bigger then 10x10, the pixels that are displayed are
taken from it's upper left corner. Choosing the rectangle is explaind
above.

.br
.I HISTOGRAM
makes a histogram of the pixels of the rectangle. The histogram is
displayed in the
.I imagetool
window. Choosing the rectangle is explaind above

.br
.I ZOOM
enlarges the chosen rectangle, and places it at the center of the
screen. After choosing the rectangle as explaind above, a menu of
.I factors:
2, 4, 8 or other,  appears. If the user chooses "other", he will have
to input a factor of his own in the
.I shell-tool
window, not before moving the mouse cursor to that window.  If the
enlarged picture is bigger then the screen, the center section of it is
displayed. In these cases the process takes longer, and sometimes
problems of memory allocation occur. If so, massages are given.

.br
.I PHOTO
is for taking a picture and saving it in a file. At the same time, a
histogram of the picture currently seen, is displayed in the
.I imagetool
window repeatedly.  This takes a lot of memory which sometimes cannot
be allocated; if so, only the histograms are effected and a massage is
given.
.I PHOTO
also makes the current rectangle to be the whole screen.

.br
.I REFRESH
refreshes the screen, or a part of it, from the internal buffer or from
an image file. The internal buffer holds either the last rectangle of
the picture that was
.I SAVEd
in it before, or the picture that was on the screen when
.I imagetool
was invoked.  After choosing
.I REFRESH,
click the MIDDLE mouse button to designate the location on the screen
where you want the origin of the picture to be .  Following MIDDLE
mouse button clicks will define another location.  You can skip this
process if you want the default location.The
.I default location
is (0,0) for
.I REFRESHing
from a user's file, or the place from which it was
.I SAVEd
for
.I REFRESHing
from the internal buffer.  Following click on the RIGHT mouse button
will display a
.I secondary menu- desmenu:
.TP
.IR
.I default org -
execute with default location.
.TP
.IR
.I defined org -
execute with the newly defined location. This option cannot be chosen
if no definition was done.
.TP
.IR
.I exit -
do not execute. Go back to
.I imagetool
window.
.SH
.br
Another
.I secondary menu- source
will be displayed once a location is chosen, providing:
.TP
.IR
.I buffer -
refresh from internal buffer.
.TP
.IR
.I image/pictures -
refresh from pictures directory. A list of the files in this directory
/horef/image/pictures will be printed. Enter the file name only.
.TP
.IR
.I other -
refresh from any image file. Enter full name of the file.

.SH
.I SAVE
saves a rectangle in the internal buffer or in a file. Choosing the
rectangle is explaind above. Following that, another
.I secondary menu - target
will appear:
.TP
.IR
.I buffer -
save in the internal buffer.
.TP
.IR
.I image/pictures -
 save in /horef/image/pictures directory. Enter the file name only.
.TP
.IR
.I other -
save in another directory. Enter full file name, including directory.
.br
.SH
.I CLEAR WIN
clears the histogram from the
.I imagetool
window.

.I SHELL
executes
.I one
shell command given in the
.I shell-tool
window, and returns control to
.I imagetool.

.br
.I HELP
prints in the
.I shell-tool
window some useful operating instructions for
.I imagetool.

.br
.I QUIT
clears the screen from the cursor, closes the open windows and device,
and terminates
.I imagetool.

.SH DEFAULTS:
device_number = 0

.SH AUTHOR
Gal Hasson - Oct. 1987
.br
Modified: Leah Mory - Nov. 1987

.SH SEE ALSO:
rframe(1HIPL), wframe(1HIPL), rbuffer(1HIPL), enlarge(1HIPL),
histotool(1HIPL)
