.TH WFRAME 1HIPS "November 27, 1986"
.SH NAME
wframe - write a frame on the IP-512 and display it on the monitor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wframe
[-y initialrow] [-x initialcol] [-d dev] [-z] [-p pan] [-s scroll] [-b
fbnum] [-h] [-t] [-m mask]<frame

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Wframe
displays on the monitor a digital picture, input from the standard
input file, and stores it in the frame buffer \fIfbnum\fR. The
dimensions of the picture are known from it's header.
(\fIinitialrow\fR,\fIinitialcol\fR) specifies the frame buffer position
of the picture. If the picture does not fit the buffer due to a
non-zero origin , there will be wraparound.
.I Pan
and
.I scroll
are only for the display. \fIz\fR, which sets the zoom, holds only if
the picture is not more than 256 x 256 pixels.
.I h
and
.I t
are relevant only if
.I fbnum
is a 16-bits buffer. If
.I t
is on, the input file must be made of 16-bits pixels.  The monitor will
display the low byte, unless
.I h
is on. In this case the high byte will be displayed. Only the bits that
their correspondent bits in
.I mask
are 0 will be modified by the input file. The others are protected.
Thus, if wframe uses a 16-bits picture and \fImask\fR==0xff00, only the
low byte buffer will be changed, while the high will remain untouched.

.SH DEFAULTS
.I Initialrow
and
.I initialcol
default to 0.
.I device
defaults to /dev/ipfb0a.
.I z
defaults to be off.
.I Pan
and
.I scroll
default to 0.
.I fbnum
defaults to MASTER_FB ( =0).
.I h
is reset; low byte chosen.
.I t
is reset; 8-bits pixels.
.I Mask
defaults to 0.

.SH SEE\ ALSO
rframe(1HIPS), rbuffer(1HIPS)

.SH AUTHOR
Michael Landy/Yoav Cohen - 2/4/82
.br
Modified: YC 6/9/82
         LEAH MORY 27/11/86
